foreign
[Music]
one of the main reasons I think that we
find ourselves attracted to certain
people and we find ourselves married to
certain people is that
we have a instinctual way of finding the
person who can trigger us the best
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett kisler here
today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
hey Brett Hey Joe good to see you man
yeah good morning so we've been getting
a lot of questions from people about
relationships and people are kind of
asking what should they do
now what how do they tell if they're in
the right relationship how do they know
when to dive in and when to pull back
how do they know whether or not they're
coming from their feelings or whether
they're coming from their trauma and
yeah we haven't had an episode yet on
relationships in particular and Jessica
we're talking about romantic
relationships are we talking about like
all relationships yeah well you know
what let's let's go into romantic
relationships but I think it applies to
all relationships most of it applies to
to close relationships I would say yeah
you know maybe not like acquaintances
but most of it will apply to like the
bosses that we keep working for or
whatever parents yeah great let's do
that let's keep it focused on the
Romantic great great and I think one of
the reasons for that is that the the
context of these closest relationships
including the Romantic relationships
involves a lot of spiritual growth a lot
of personal development a lot of our own
our own stuff comes up and it's a
container in which we get to experience
and recreate a lot of our patterns and
work through through them and
you know that the same isn't necessarily
true in a lot of work relationships on
some levels it is but to some extent you
know there's something special about the
Romantic relationship that more
often comes up and people have very
specific questions about it yeah I'd say
more agreement is on that it's true that
there's more agreement like how we can
work on our stuff here together that
there's not I'm not I don't need to be a
professional
that I can actually work on my stuff
here yeah great let's do it
relationships what's what's a good
starting question here a good place to
start would be sort of to to lay out the
the framework of what a romantic
relationship actually is
and where it comes from what brings us
into them what attracts us to them what
kinds of relationships we're attracted
to
and that's a pretty fractal
multi-question right there yeah so it's
interesting because you said something
earlier about like am I coming into this
relationship out of a healthy thing or
am I coming out of into this
relationship and the trauma
I would say there that I don't think
that question is relevant meaning that
the people that we're attracted to that
we find ourselves in relationships with
are people who hook into our particular
trauma our particular projections our
particular patterns perfectly
and so
if we have a long-term relationship you
can pretty much be sure that that's
those two patterns interlock kind of
perfectly and
and so that's one of the main reasons I
think that we find ourselves attracted
to certain people and we find ourselves
married to certain people is that
we have a
instinctual way of finding the person
who
from one perspective can trigger us the
best and on on another perspective I
would say uh has the biggest opportunity
for our healing Mutual healing
and
so that seems to be why people become
attracted to one another is to solve
that thing and the other way I would put
that is if you take a look at
like young children young children get
taught what love is in a particular way
love is associated with shame or love is
associated with you know
authoritarianism or love is associated
with money or love is associated with
food or
and
that creates certain patterns certain
ways in which they're trying to get the
love certain ways in which they're
scared of getting the rejection
and however that pattern gets saddened
or created that's what you're gonna find
somebody in your romantic relationship
that holds us the other side of that
pattern is why you hear so many people
talk about things like oh my gosh she's
so much my husband is so much like my
father my husband is so much like my my
mother or my wife is so much like my
father it's it's that there's often
times we're recreating those patterns so
that they can be healed or at least
that's the opportunity the opportunity
is you get to heal patterns if both
people are willing to do the work yeah I
I notice that there's a way of seeing
this as a feature or a bug yeah and like
oh no I just keep getting to the same
relationships I'm just keep dating my
mother or my father and there's
something wrong with that and that makes
there's something wrong with me or right
what I see you also pointing to is that
there's there's an opportunity to heal
these things as an opportunity to feel
the feelings that haven't been felt yet
yes and this is perhaps one of the
distinctions with a romantic
relationship as far as consensus
agreement versus say a boss is that at
least in a romantic relationship that's
the place where culturally we expect to
be most accepted as we actually are
right and we have we tend to develop the
most interdependence
which is not Universal codependence or
dependence yes
and I okay and I would question and but
this is for a different podcast I have a
question
the non-consensuality of a job but you
know I think that we are all responsible
for our own decisions I mean the
consensual reality of what people agree
is the purpose of a romantic
relationship versus what people tend to
culturally agree is the purpose of a
work relationship that's a great
question because I think a lot of people
think that the agreement behind a
relationship is that we're here to make
each other happy
and I think that's terminal
I think that that that kills a
relationship I think my experience is
that that not only kills a relationship
but it also
allows us to lose ourselves and others
it creates a tremendous amount of pain
if we take responsibility for anybody's
happiness or give
um our responsibility for our own
happiness to anybody
and all the subtle and not so subtle
ways that that happens and I think that
that's the particularly in in societies
where romantic love that crushy feeling
in the first three months where you have
that crushy feeling and you get that
feeling of massive oxytocin and
oh and then you're like wait being with
that person makes me feel this way and
then obviously that goes away after
about three to five months and then wait
what's happening why are they making me
happy anymore and then everybody starts
doing things to try to make the other
person happy and has expectations of
that and then that's where all the
trauma shows up
so I think if if you're actually in a
relationship where both people are
saying
okay we're here primarily to
use a relationship as a way to create
our own freedom to make ourselves happy
ourselves and to be kind and supportive
to one another
then that's going to be a relationship
that's successful
unfortunately most relationships I think
in our society consciously or
subconsciously
are more in the in the vein of okay
I'm here to make them happier they're
here to make me happy
and that's my job in the relationship
and they're not making me happy so they
need to change there's a lot of that
like trying to get each other to change
in a relationship which is just yeah
brutal I wonder what it's like to go
into a relationship with uh with the
agreement of
you know this like
relationships are meant to make us feel
warm and fuzzy for a time so that we
build attachment and connection and then
push our buttons yes that's right yeah
and when my buttons get pushed that's
exactly what I'm here for and I'm here
to heal my own buttons not yours
and I'm here for my own transformation
not for years
you can see that metaphor play out
completely in the sexual relationship
too where
if you're having a sexual relationship
where it's all about pleasing the other
person it's going to be horrible sex if
it's all about pleasing yourself
that's also going to be horrible sex but
you can't exclude the fact that you're
there for your pleasure
they're there for their pleasure and the
only person responsible for your
pleasure can be you there's nobody else
who can
know what you need or what you want or
how to be with you I mean you're you're
the authority in that and it's the same
with
healing inside of a relationship yeah
and with and with growth yeah um I've
seen and I've experienced this before in
my relationships where
each partner or one partner feels like
they are responsible for the other's
growth yeah or in somehow in some manner
guiding it or in some manner more
equipped to to facilitate it and that
just stifles things immediately yeah uh
that's that's hell that's absolute hell
yeah Tara and I definitely went through
that phase it was brutal yeah and full
of arrogance and hubris and and
distraction from your own and
among a whole bunch of other things yeah
right and so this this comes back to you
know in the process of getting into a
relationship there's this possible
having this like consent this agreement
that like what relationships are for how
like this desire to have for each of us
to to use the relationship for our own
freedom and our own growth and part of
that might even be not requiring the
other person to have that same agreement
just that's just the way that you live
individually and that's the way that you
show up in relationships and I would
like that to be true I don't know if it
is I don't think I've ever really seen
any relationship get through the bottoms
unless both people have agreed to the
fact that
they're there for their personal growth
they might make it as far as they stay
but it's dead inside you know they might
be married for 50 years but it's just
like brutal and cold and unfulfilling
yeah but if I don't know of any
relationship I'm just tracking right now
I can't speak to any relationship that I
have found that is like healthy and
rewarding and fulfilling and that
changes with the you know the multiple
marriages that we all go through over 20
or 30 years or 40 years
that hasn't had the agreement that we
are here like that it's not about
changing the other person it's about our
own personal growth and how do we be
with ourselves be better people or
better people's not right but learn how
to be more and more of ourselves yeah I
think that that comes to that brings up
a common sticking point that can happen
around this work when when somebody
discovers
a practice like this or discovers any
kind of path that is that they're
finding really helpful for their healing
and for their growth and then they start
to feel like their partner is not on
board with it and they might be like
okay well now I need you to agree that
we're reaching this for our own freedom
and you need to be in so there can still
be sort of a trying to change them to
make them the one that wants to use the
relationship for their freedom and
support each other in that yeah and yeah
also how yeah absolutely people that I
see that all the time where people start
discovering something themselves and and
I would say out of a deep love and care
they want their partner to join them
but also out of a desire to be happy
like oh if they change I'll be happy
that's the thing it's like if you think
that your partner is going to do
anything that makes you happy like if
you have the fantasy that oh if they
become this and this and that they'll
make me happy that's like an absolute
illusion
it's not how it works it it doesn't mean
that
being with certain people would be more
conducive to thriving than other people
right it doesn't mean that you should be
with the partner and just learn how to
endure it all I'm not I'm not saying
that but
we're responsible for our own happiness
nobody else can take control of that
nobody else can provide that for us and
the more clear that gets the more likely
you are
or I think it's a foregone conclusion
the more you will be in healthy
relationships let's scroll back a little
bit to to the process of getting into a
relationship from this framing from this
perspective of yeah you know
relationships are a path to my growth
and
I can I can use relationships to make
myself happy at the same time that my
partner is making themselves happy and
that we are both co-creators and
co-conspirers of our of our own
individual yeah agency and autonomy and
growth and developing a healthy
interdependence and not codependence
knowing that we're attracted to
relationships that are mirroring our own
traumas in some sense or matching them
a lot of people have a question have a
wondering about like
well how do I know if what I'm getting
into is healthy if I know that if I if I
can just assume that with the
relationships I'm getting into are based
on my trauma patterns
how do I tell if that's going to be
healthy or if that's just going to
re-traumatize me and re recreate the
situation reprove my my belief system so
let me back up off of that question for
a second and so that I can answer it
more precisely so I have had the really
lovely
um experience of several times being
with people on their kind of their first
date either being in the booth next to
them at a restaurant or showing people
who might have interest in one another
like showing up and being with them for
the first time that they're meeting
and if you're listening to it the right
way it's like a contract negotiation
where they're like giving each other
pieces of information about each other
and they're telling themselves how
they're going to act and so like in both
cases where I got to experience this I
got to from the outside I got to say oh
I know exactly how that relationship's
gonna go like you can see the entire
thing in the first couple moments and so
first date or two and there's like all
these subtle agreements that are being
made subconsciously or not fully
consciously
and so just to say that like whether
we're conscious of it or not we're that
wise in it you know it's like we might
not be knowing how we're handling like
our heart palpitations and our and our
breath and exercise we're not
engineering it but we're taking care of
it I think the same thing is happening I
have seen the same thing to happen on
two occasions every occasion I've gotten
to see it where people are on their
first date so there's this beautiful
subconscious intelligence at work that's
the first part of that which I think is
really important the second part is am I
attracted to this person because of my
trauma or am I attracted to this person
because it'll be healing both you're
going to re-traumatize yourself in the
relation every marriage re-traumatizes
some of the things that we learned from
our early childhood and every
relationship has the potential to
or not just management any kind of
long-term relationship has the the
chance to heal us from our traumas both
of their case
the easiest thing to say is if you guys
both agree that we're here to work do
the work to find our own freedom
then you're going to get a lot more of
the healing and a lot less of the
re-traumatizing if there's no agreement
like that and one person's like
in full blame mode full change the other
person full defense mode then you're
going to get a lot more
re-traumatization that that's just how
it is
I think it's a false pretext to say is
this the right person for me that I'm
attracted to
the right thought process is oh I am
attracted to this person therefore they
are that they do have that kind of Click
they have that thing in them that that
attracts the part of me that needs to be
healed are we gonna do that or are we
gonna are we gonna be you know
unconscious in this relationship I think
that's that's the way to tell the
difference is the person willing to do
the work yeah and then then there's the
open question of
is the lesson for me in this
relationship
to let more love in and open up and let
down my defenses or is it to draw
boundaries and
and you know decide what I don't see the
separation in those two things those are
the same thing in my world yeah I see
that I guess as a more like a common
question where it's like that's a common
question yeah there's definitely
something for me to learn in this
relationship and it's the thing for me
to learn to dive into it or is a thing
for me to learn to walk away from it
because I'm having feelings and trying
to interpret them right so there's this
kind of age-old question in all
spiritual growth and this and the way
you're posing it right now is kind of
the relational version of that question
but the non-relational version of that
question is
if I am truly at peace I should be able
to live on top of a disco
and be it peace and if I'm truly at
peace why on Earth would I live on top
of a disco right it's like that that's
kind of like so do I move or do I stay
on top of the Disco
that's kind of the question and and
so the thing that I disagreed with in
the first phrasing and and that I didn't
hear in the second phrasing was you know
do I open my heart and stay open and the
answer to that is always yes
and the question of boundaries is do I
need to draw a boundary so that I can
maintain that open heart
and so I can maintain that unconditional
love
or do I need to look at my own
experience to be able to maintain that
unconditional love to maintain that open
heart
and even that is somewhat of a false
dichotomy and the fact that oftentimes
it's both the other part of it that's
kind of a false dichotomy is that
thinking that the drawing the boundary
is more about the other person
meaning
um so somebody for instance is you got a
boyfriend
and six months in the boyfriend lies to
you now there's certain people who would
be like yeah I'm done we're finished
there's not even a question
and there's other people who would put
up with it because of all these other
cool things but then two years down the
line they're just tired of the line and
so they're like should I be good with
the line or should I draw the boundary
with the line
and the truth is drawing the boundary
about the line
is really a version of
learning oh I don't have to accept line
in my life
it's internal work more than it is
external work the external saying of it
is just a way to affirm the internal
realization that I don't have to live
with somebody lying to me and it doesn't
help me Thrive and it doesn't help them
thrive
and so in a way it's all internal work
sometimes it's drawing a boundary and
sometimes it's leaving so there's that
false dichotomy between
is it my problem or their problem that's
the false dichotomy it's always about
you being responsible for your own
happiness you know that's that speaks to
the the process of
of healing in a relationship and that
which leads to showing up in a different
way which leads to leads to drawing
boundaries leads to opening your heart
leads to yeah taking actions and being
taking on ways of being that you've
never had before and allowing your
partner to do to do that allowing your
partner to change into something you've
never seen them be before seen anybody
be before in your relationship with you
yeah and so that's a continuous process
of feeling helplessness and grieving
whatever a relationship was whatever our
identity was in relationship yes and I
think that that also
paradoxically keeps is what keeps the
relationship fresh and keeps the spice
going absolutely there's like that the
NRE the new relationship energy that
often is considered to die off after a
certain period of time and in my
experience it comes right back every
time a relationship goes through a big
move and a big healing process and
becomes redefined and open and more more
accepting and more aware of more parts
of both people yeah I think it's a more
grounded version of than new
relationship energy every time is my
experience but yeah it keeps it fresh
and alive and yeah it's a beautiful way
to say it and
[Music]
one of the reasons that relationships in
particular are so
we take them so personally is because we
suffer under the illusion that the other
person's actions or reactions are going
to affect us
more
you know with like an inordinate
amount of
pressure so to speak so meaning oh if he
quits his job then what does it mean for
me oh if she
um you know
becomes a vegan what does it mean to me
right like and so we're constantly
monitoring
the person's change on the other side
and what it's how it's going to affect
our life more profoundly we're
monitoring what they're doing and how
it's going to affect our identity
and also
we're moderated to see if they're going
to hold us in place or not hold us in
place right so oh wow you're going
through something that makes it that you
don't want to caretake me anymore but
then who the going to take care
of me
because I've created my whole system to
create caretakers you know I've I've
created a system where I gained
helplessness and I'm weak and a victim
and therefore I find people who want to
take care of me so if you stop taking
care of me then I'm gonna have to become
empowered
but really I feel that caretaking is
love so now I feel unloved and you know
it goes like that and it's very
you know we get very scared by what the
other person's growth typically and so
there's a lot of pressure we'll we'll
exert a lot of pressure and get very
angry over it
um typically or or sad or whatever we'll
we'll use every tool in the tool book to
try to keep the person
in the place where we feel safe it's
interesting to see the pattern where
often in a relationship where somebody
is afraid of being held back or of
holding back they're also the same
person is also doing doing the
disempowering for themselves and the
other or
or bidding for the disempowerment that's
right totally it is and
the other thing is that like all these
fights that we get into in our
relationships they're all you can all
you can break them down to pretty much
the same basic thing it's like
one person feels unseen and or but so
both people feel unseen in that moment
or feel unheard unseen you know not
grocked not respected some version of
that then there's a desire to change the
other person
and that's
that is like the quintessential part of
all fights and that somebody's closed or
both people have closed down their heart
and said oh I'm not going to be open
so every fight
can be resolved with
one and or both people saying
oh I'm gonna love you unconditionally
even in this situation
here let me take the time to see you let
me make sure that I'm seeing you
correctly let me sure make sure that I
understand what you need to be respected
and I'm not going to try to change you
anymore if like you flip that switch in
a fight the fight goes away
and
it might take a while to go away and
that's why I said so most people in that
when they're in that fight they do this
they're like yeah I'm not gonna open to
my heart until they open their heart I'm
not gonna I'm not gonna see them until
I'm seen like I'm always the one who's
seen them I'm always the one who's I
need a partner that does the work yeah
exactly oh that version right as if
it's like saying hey I'm not going to be
free until they're free like what the
hell it makes no sense from this
perspective like like oh if I drop my
needing to be seen if I drop my
closeness if I lower the armor
that's my freedom I get that no matter
what the if the person's yelling if the
person's like I get that and my freedom
might be to leave my freedom might be to
draw a boundary but I get my freedom and
why would I care
this is that that Focus you know the
focus on self like and then they have to
make their choice they get to make that
choice they so yeah that's the
fascinating piece is just that every one
of the fights I don't care
I've never seen a fight that isn't
basically about that in a relationship
yeah and then if you do find your
freedom then you're giving your partner
an opportunity to love you in your
freedom which will do things for them as
well yeah and unless you have somebody
with like a severe
psychological disorder when you show up
and you listen to them and you
unconditionally love them and you hear
them they won't continue to react the
same way towards you they will change
they will oh I feel seen I feel safe
and then they will show up more loving
they will listen better they will want
to meet you there yeah it might take
them 20 minutes
but they'll want to right or or even a
few weeks or however much time it takes
yeah exactly yeah
and another thing that this points to
about this you know being in
relationships where there's there's an
agreement that each is in it for their
own freedom and supportive of one
another
yeah
um there can then become a level of well
what does that mean and what are the
tools and I see this be a common thing
where somebody gets on to some path of
like what works for them and I've seen
this happen with somebody who gets
really into psychedelics and then the
other partner doesn't or somebody gets
really into uh into this work into a few
art of accomplishment type work or
somebody who gets into
whatever is out there and then the other
partner doesn't necessarily agree that
that's their path and then the argument
is not about that we're here for both of
our freedom but the argument is about
what path to Freedom actually is and
then you're trying to change him yeah I
mean Tara went a completely separate way
for a decade you know I know I've talked
on this thing about her making fun of my
path and you don't get to control that
in another person but the best approach
in that is to learn what their path is
what does happen sometimes is people are
like that's not my path but they're not
doing any path they're not doing any
work you know that like
like therapy is not my path that's not
my path I I'm just reading books and and
intellectualizing and that'll be my path
and but you're not seeing the growth and
so then address that issue then the
issue is like hey I don't see the I
don't see whatever you're doing being
effective
like I don't see you living up to your
side of the agreement which is you know
working on your own freedom
and so I think that that's more of the
the thing to try to get somebody else to
do it but there is a subsection of this
let's take it out of transformation for
a moment where it's like
I am clear that I want to be
non-monogamous and that's what I need to
do for you know or I am clear that I
need to try to start a billion dollar
company and that's what I need to do and
the other person's like I am clear I
don't want to be in a non-monogamous
relationship or I am clear that I don't
want you to have a boyfriend or I'm
clear that I don't want to be the wife
of a or husband of a you know
multinational CEO
there's something in that which is
really fascinating and I think that
that's
basic misnomer there is that people
think and those are big ones we can do
small ones too which is like I'm clear
that like I don't want to do the dishes
and I'm clear that I don't want to live
with someone who doesn't do the dishes
right I'm clear I want to wake up at
eight in the morning and meditate with
my partner or yeah yeah it's unclear
that the kids should have a certain
schedule right yeah exactly and so
in that one would usually be one person
compromises or both people compromise
and I'm going to use that word really
specifically like to compromise
meaning that I am going to neglect some
aspect of myself to make you happy
and I highly recommend never doing that
I highly recommend never doing that
because that always builds up resentment
there's always now now you're walking
around the house going I can show these
three parts of myself but not these two
parts of myself
I can't say this thing I gotta walk on
eggshells all this other
weight and friction comes into the
relationship
rather than saying okay like what we're
going to do now is we're going to figure
out a way that you get your needs met
and I get my needs met and we're going
to be smart enough to do that and we're
going to commit to doing that
and if for whatever reason that can't be
done which in my experience never can't
be done
then okay then maybe the relationship's
not right for us and let's admit that
let's get there but neither of us are
sacrificing we're both going to get our
needs met and we'll find a way to do it
and there's always a way like okay we're
gonna get someone to come in and do the
dishes or
we can do the dishes at like seven
o'clock at night together or we're using
I would hate to say this but disposable
recyclable and put it all in the compost
or what um there's a thousand solutions
to every problem
and if you're not in a power struggle
with the person if you're not trying to
get them to change there's always the
solution yeah I think a part of that is
seeing seeing the others needs or the
others stated needs as
not threats but as something that points
to a deeper need that's because then you
can kind of climb down the ladder of
apparent needs into what's actually
needed which tends to become sort of the
same thing the need for the need for
safety the need for autonomy the need
for connection yeah beautifully seen and
and that is why
the job is to constantly keep an open
heart
right is to not
to not armor up and think you're under
attack to see that you can only really
be attacked on something that you're
thinking is is bad about yourself
and so
like oh I like I want you to get your
needs met of course I do
and I want my my needs to get mad and
how do we do both is the open-hearted
approach as compared to no I can't I
will not do that
and the crazy thing is it's like I see
this in you know no I will not have a
non-monogamous relationship
if you have that boundary that's
fantastic I love that boundary
but it's it is so much different than
saying oh I really hear that you're
sexually unsatisfied in the marriage
and I want you to be sexually satisfied
in the marriage
and I'm not okay with us having
relationships outside
or I'm not okay with us not having
relationships outside of the marriage
as long as we're not connected or
whatever the boundary is like it's so
much different than I won't do that
right I won't do that as this armored
defensive
and then saying oh I can really
acknowledge and see your needs and I
really want you to get your needs met
and oh by the way this scares the
out of me because I think we're about to
get a divorce because you have a need
that I'm not going to be able to fulfill
I hear a vulnerability of okay these are
my needs these are your needs
there's openness to that this might not
actually be a match and that we can't
both get them met at the same time and
there's an open-heartedness to really
looking for
where that correspondence might be yeah
and ultimately
once again going back to that original
principle of each of us is in it for our
own freedom and in support of each
other's Freedom yeah which means if I
have a need my need doesn't necessarily
like my need doesn't need to become a
control pattern upon you correct yeah
that's it my need becomes something that
I inquire into myself and from
vulnerably share my process in and it's
my responsibility to get that need met
yeah and the other part about like this
I think about relationships like we
first talked about like the like if you
think about like standing upright and
having your arms out like in a cross
most poetry most stuff is most art is
written about like the arms of the
relationship the beginning and the end
and we're talking right now about the
body of the relationship which is kind
of where most of the self-help books
hang out and the thing about that body
of the relationship is it's if you I'll
tell you in a story which was working
with a client and the client was saying
how
um she felt like she was being attacked
all the time by her husband
and I was like yeah so who gives a
and she I remember her looking at me
like what I'm like yeah but like so he's
attacking you
if you are different than your authentic
self because of an attack they've won
he's won
you're like the only thing that you have
to focus on is being authentic in the
face of that attack because otherwise
like you're already out of yourself
you've already
you know like lost so to speak so how do
you want to be in the face of this
attack if it's true even which
most likely not true it's most likely
the way it kind of works in
relationships is someone thinks they
have something to defend that other
person sees that defense as an attack
they think they have something to defend
and then the first person sees that
defense as an attack and both people
thinking they're defending themselves
and both people feeling attacked that's
typically how it works and and then
creating an attack by doing something
like
like not being their authentic self
right in the face of an attack which
then makes the other partner feel more
disconnected more abandoned that's right
so it's like oh yeah great they've
attacked you so how do you want to be
and I've never seen somebody deeply get
in contact with that and say okay yeah
what I want to do is be closed down they
might say that they want to draw a
boundary they might say oh what I want
is to
is to say oh I don't want to be treated
like this or you know please stop
yelling at me if you have to keep on
yelling at me then
I'm gonna leave and I'm happy to come
back when you're not yelling at me lots
of ways to handle it but I've never
heard anybody say authentically what I
want to do is I want to like shut down
an attack that'll feel great
wow being defensive feels freaking great
I want to be more defensive with my
husband I've never seen like the
marriage that I want is uh 55 more
defensive and uh you know like it's just
it's not what's right that's true for us
and so
that's the the thing and and it reminds
me of this other story I love this story
it was um Tara and I saw a therapist uh
years years back in
and he had this story which I loved
which was
he was working with the client and the
client went to the bathroom in the
middle of the night
and started to pee and missed the toilet
and he noticed a thought the first
thought he had was God damn it she moved
the toilet
[Laughter]
and in that moment he had this
recognition like oh crap I'm totally
holding her responsible for everything
like none of it's her job and it kind of
kind of saw through this whole thing of
like
he was like blaming his whole life on
his wife do you want a life where you're
blaming somebody else for your own
happiness no nobody wants it and yet
here we are finding ourselves in this in
the middle of a relationship and just
that acknowledgment of this isn't the
way that we want to be with each other
this is the way we want to be with each
other
that's huge and so we've we've talked
now about sort of the beginning of the
relationship and the kinds of agreements
and the kinds of the sort of a
consensual reality in the in a
relationship for for growth and for
Freedom we've talked a lot about the
body and now
what if you do this work and yeah you
find oh you know what this this
relationship has played its course yeah
and what we're actually looking for is
something different or what I'm looking
for is something different
or my partner left me and they are
shutting down and I feel powerless and
how do I stay connected to them
while they're shutting down to me before
I get there one one of the things I'll
just say about the middle of the
relationship too is that one of the
things to just look for in a
relationship is there's a lot of places
where somebody thinks they want
something and they have so much craving
for it that they're actually pushing it
away that can be like a jealousy
if you find yourself in a relationship
where you have the strong desire for
something and you keep on trying to get
it and you can't get it
then it's really great to acknowledge
that you're actually pushing it away
which means subconsciously you're not
ready for it don't want it haven't
admitted
what it's going to do to your identity
some version of that I just think that's
a really good like little helpful hint
for people
who find themselves like I just want
this I want this so badly and I can't
get it here
it's like to know that that energy is
actually pushing that away from you
which means that there's some way in
which you haven't fully accepted your
desire for it and and willingness to
receive it yeah it seems to apply across
the across the board to Cravings yeah
yeah the Deep Cravings yeah so on the
end of the relationship the ending of
the relationship is often like the most
productive time in a relationship if
you're approaching it like this is a
spiritual growth thing and so what I've
seen the great story I have on this is
that you know the first time I
experienced it I had a friend who had
the love of his life had been in the
longest relationship which at the time
was 11 months or something and he was
like perennial Bachelor until he was 40
or something anyway he was in this
situation and
at the time he was
overweight drinking too much his
business was failing
and
had this breakup had lost himself quite
a bit in the relationship had this
breakup
and we had this conversation about like
hey this is a great time if you can
mourn it and so he had this long drive
he was doing restoration work and he had
this long drive across Arizona every day
and not every day every week and he
would cry and mourn the whole time
there and back and then you know two
months later it was crying mourn for a
couple hours there and back and then and
six months later he wasn't drinking
too much he was in shape he was had he
was running a successful business he
got new contracts he
at his entire world had changed and when
I asked him about like how did that work
a couple things that he said that were
exceptional one is because oh my God no
idea I could make sounds like that you
know when I was mourning I had no idea
and the other thing was he said you know
I started my mourning the relationship
but then I mourned everything that got
me into the relationship all the trauma
all the all the patterns that got me
into that relationship I I could mourn
and move through them and
and that's the opportunity in the end of
a relationship is if you fully mourn it
you're not going to replicate the
relationship if you fully allow yourself
to feel the sadness and the Heartbreak
and the hurt it will increase your
capacity to love in the future and it
will
mandate a deeper form a more connected
form of love from the next relationship
you'll be attracted to different people
and so there's this huge opportunity in
a breakup
to allow that morning to occur and to
and to move through all those difficult
emotions and embrace them and love them
it's like a gigantic opportunity
rather than dismiss it and that includes
the person breaking up and the person
being broken up with or whatever or even
the people around them you know mourning
the morning the identity of the couple
and the way that they related to them
yeah
um and one of the things that seems to
be just like a really common factor when
when I see people or in my life after a
breakup remain friends or be really
close friends or even decide that they
actually want to stay together but just
in a completely different form of
relationship the factor there is that
they've actually grieved it fully yes
that's right and those who have not done
that are the ones who are continuing to
hold the bitterness and get into another
relationship just like it yeah that's
exactly right that's that's exactly the
pattern that I see in the world I think
the other
and the front end of breaking up with
somebody is this moment should I break
up with them or should I stay with them
it's like that crazy moment that people
have and my response to that is almost
always the same which is
why don't you just be fully who you are
and it it ends it ends and if it doesn't
it doesn't like it's the same thing I
tell people we're thinking about
quitting a job it's like how like
there's all these ways that you have
stopped being yourself in the
relationship why don't you just be
yourself in the relationship and if it
becomes a dumpster fire it's a dumpster
fire you're done anyways and if it
doesn't become a dumpster fire and it
has like something like 70 80 percent of
the time the relationship heals just
from that just from people showing up
and saying this is how I want to be you
know love it or leave it but I'm not
gonna defend myself I'm just gonna be me
and I hope you share I hope you don't or
whatever it is like it doesn't matter
it's just like my job is just being me
here and
not being defensive about it and it's
incredible how much that changes yeah
yeah and inauthenticity is the source of
a lot of the pain all of the pain really
that's correct yeah and usually the
person on the other side is more
attracted more excited more eager to be
involved after you know whatever one to
six months of
you know pushing up against the the oh
no wait no wait this isn't what we
agreed to you know that kind of stuff
but it it's amazing how often that works
and and if it doesn't work
then as far as keeping a relationship
alive it definitely works as far as
teaching people how to be themselves in
the next relationship it works as far as
creating a more amicable split up and
all that stuff yeah and then the final
piece I just see to mention here is
that it can be a journey to be fully
authentic in a relationship and to hold
somebody to being fully authentic in a
relationship isn't loving them as they
are in their journey and the same is
true for yourself that's right yeah I
mean I don't I don't think that Journey
ever ends I hope it doesn't I hope I
continue to find ways to be more
authentic and and more
more supporting of myself and others I
think that's the other
piece is that I think is really critical
is that anything that you can't love
about your partner anything that you
want to change about your partner
the most useful thing to know about that
stuff is that's something you can't love
about yourself
it's something that you have no
flexibility in yourself it's something
that you judge yourself for or would
judge yourself for
that
my ability to be
patient and loving and caring towards
every aspect of Tara is a direct
reflection of my capacity to be loving
and patient with the aspects of myself
period and so I think that's a really
important way to look at it there's
nothing that you're
there's nothing that the other person
has in them that you don't have in you
and that you there's no way it's like I
really love their this but I can't love
it in myself or vice versa it's not how
it works yeah and it's the people who
love themselves who tend to also be the
most attractive yes and definitely the
most they create the healthiest
relationships
yeah like I've never seen like two
people who just like deeply love
themselves and can accept themselves who
who are like in a just diabolically
horrible dysfunctional relationship like
you just think about you can't even
imagine it and so yeah exactly and the
other thing to say about that I think
for some people that's a little scary
like oh I'm gonna love myself there's
some fear
if I do that then
you know I'll be non-ambitious or I'll
be evil or I'll be there's a there's a
slew of things that look around see if
you can find anybody who truly loves
themselves and is evil or truly loves
themselves and is like you know
non-ambitious like self-care and all
that stuff doesn't go away with
self-love oh beautiful I think this is a
great place to wrap it up yeah man that
was good I I could see us having a whole
nother
podcast on on relationships I feel like
we could uh delve in deeper oh you know
it'd be cool maybe we do it with you and
um and Alexa yeah I'd love to
interviewed me on that thing that would
be really cool to have like
three-way conversation that'd be fun
yeah let's do that next time okay
awesome all right thanks Brett all right
good to see you you too bye thanks for
listening to the art of accomplishment
if you enjoyed what you heard today
please subscribe and rate US on your
podcast app we'd love your feedback so
feel free to send us questions or
comments you can reach out to us join
our newsletter or check out our courses
at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
thank you
foreign